WHAT APPEALS MEETING I'M
CANDICE BRIERRE, CHAIRPERSON
OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS,
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS IS
A NINE PERSON VOLUNTEER BOARD
NOMINATED BY THE MAYOR AND
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES REPRESENTED
BY JOHN BARRETT, THEN THE
APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND WILL
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR
REMOTELY.
WE WILL FIRST CALL AN
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IF
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING ID
NINE THREE EIGHT ONE SIX FOUR
EIGHT ONE ZERO ZERO SEVEN CITY
STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT
HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE FOR THOSE ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK YOU WILL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
ANY TELEVISION BACKGROUND
SOUNDS.
>> WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS
OF EITHER THE CITY OR THE
APPLICANT.
>> WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY
WRITTEN COMMENTS RECEIVED BY
THE BOARD.
>> WE WILL ALLOW AN APPEARING
PARTY TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT
OR OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THAT APPEAL.
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OF THE
BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN
APPEAL TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED PARTY
WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION
OF THE BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT
DECISION TO THE WASHTENAW
CIRCUIT COURT ON A TIMELY
BASIS.
>> ROLL CALL KANDACE BREYER I
AM HERE TO GRANT I AM HERE DAVE
HAVE ALREADY YOU'VE ALREADY
HERE PADI LASKOWSKI HERE JULIE
WETHERBEE HERE DREW DENSON HERE
MIKE DANIEL DARMA ECKMANN HERE
CHRISTINA LUSSAC WE HAVE A
QUORUM MOVING ON TO APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS
COMMENTS ON THE AGENDA?
IF NOT DO WE HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA
?
>> EXCELLENT MOTION BY JULIE
SECONDED BY DARMA ALL IN FAVOR
SAY I OPPOSED MOVING ON TWO
MINUTES.
WE HAVE MINUTES FROM OUR LAST
MEETING ON DECEMBER 4TH.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS,
COMMENTS, CORRECTIONS TO THOSE
MINUTES?
>> IF NOT, DO WE HAVE
THANKS
VERY MUCH RIGHT.
I THINK WE'RE PROBABLY FINE
SCRUTINIZER.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THOSE MINUTES FROM TED.
>> THANK YOU.
SUPPORT SUPPORT.
>> THANK YOU DAVE.
ALL IN FAVOR.
SAY HI OPPOSED MOVING ON TO
PUBLIC HEARINGS FIRST WE HAVE
ZIBA TWENTY FOUR DASH ZERO ZERO
THREE NINE FOUR TO SIX S FOURTH
AVENUE JOHN GOOD EVENING.
I'M JOHN BARRETT, ZONING
COORDINATOR FOR THE CITY BANABA
.
>> THE FIRST CASE THIS EVENING
IS ZIBA TWENTY FOUR DASH ZERO
ZERO THREE NINE AND THE ADDRESS
IS FOUR TWENTY SIX S FOURTH
AVENUE CARE ONE RENTAL LLC IS
REQUESTING RELIEF FROM SECTION
FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO POINT TO
ALTERATION TO A NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE IN ORDER TO FINISH
CURRENTLY NON HABITABLE SPACE
IN THE BASEMENT AND CREATE A
NEW UNIT IN THE BASEMENT WHICH
WILL CONTAIN FIVE BEDROOMS AND
THREE BATHROOMS.
ALSO PART OF THIS PROJECT WILL
BE A 258 SQUARE FOOT SECOND
STORY ADDITION OVER AN EXISTING
FIRST FLOOR ADDITION AREA IN
THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF THE
PROPERTY TO THIS EXISTING
NONCONFORMING RESIDENCE.
THE PROPOSED INTERIOR REMODEL
WILL CONSTRUCTION WILL
RECONFIGURE THE EXISTING
APARTMENTS FROM SIX UNITS
CURRENTLY TEN BEDROOMS DOWN TO
FOUR UNITS WHICH WILL HAVE
TWENTY BEDROOMS.
>> THE PROPERTY IS ZONED OUR
FORESE MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE WEST SIDE OF FOURTH
AVENUE BETWEEN EAST WILLIAM
STREET AND PACKERS' STREET IN
THE GERMANTOWN NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE APARTMENT BUILDING WAS
BUILT IN 1911 AND IS
APPROXIMATELY THREE THOUSAND
357 SQUARE FEET IN SIZE.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS
NONCONFORMING FOR AREA AS IT'S
EIGHT THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED
EIGHTY NINE SQUARE FEET AND THE
NUMBER OF DWELLING UNITS IS
SIX.
THE OWNERS ARE PROPOSING A NEW
ADDITION OVER THE EXISTING
FIRST FLOOR AREA ON THE
SOUTHWEST CORNER OF THE
BUILDING.
THE SECOND FLOOR ADDITION WILL
CONTAIN TWO BEDROOMS AND A FULL
BATHROOM FLOOR FOR UNIT NUMBER
THREE.
THE ADDITION MEETS THE AIR
FORCE DISTRICT SET BACK
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE SEIDNER
YARDS.
HOWEVER, THE NEWLY
CREATED HABITABLE SPACE IN THE
BASEMENT WILL REQUIRE WILL BE A
FIVE BEDROOM THREE BATHROOM
UNIT.
THE NEW BASEMENT CONSTRUCTION
DOES REQUIRE THE ALTERATION
APPROVAL FROM THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS.
IF YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITORS, THE FIRST
SLIDE AS YOU CAN SEE IS THE
LOCATION OUR ZONING MAP AND YOU
CAN SEE THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
HIGHLIGHTED IN GREEN IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE SCREEN.
THE SECOND SLIDE IS THE
LOCATION MAP SHOWING
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
NEXT SLIDE IS A ZOOMED IN AREA
PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
AND THE NEW ADDITIONS IS GOING
TO BE RIGHT OVER THIS AREA
OF THE FIRST FLOOR.
THE FIRST SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED BY THE
APPLICANT AND THE NEXT SLIDE IS
THE SITE PLAN THAT WAS
SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT AS
WELL.
AND YOU COULD SEE THE HATCHED
IN AREA SHOWING THE PROPOSED
ADDITIONS.
LIKE I SAID THOUGH PREVIOUSLY,
THIS ISN'T PART OF THE REQUIRED
ALTERATION WHICH IS THE
BASEMENT CONSTRUCTION BUT THIS
IS PART OF THE PROJECT THE NEXT
SLIDE SHOWS THE ELEVATIONS
PROPOSED.
>> YOU SEE THE SITE THE
ELEVATION ON THE LEFT HAND
CORNER OF THE NORTH ELEVATION,
THE REAR OR THE WEST ELEVATION
AND ON THE RIGHT OF MY CURSOR
IS GOING OVER.
THAT'S WHERE THE ADDITION ON
THE SECOND FLOOR IS GOING TO BE
AND THEN YOU'VE GOT THE SIDE S
ELEVATION OF THE BOTTOM AND
THEN THE FRONT E ELEVATION IN
THE LOWER RIGHT CORNER.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
BASEMENT DEMOLITION PLAN AND
THIS IS WHERENE OF THE UNITS
UNIT NUMBER FOUR WILL BE GOING.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS FIRST
FLOOR DEMOLITION, SECOND FLOOR
DEMOLITION AND THEN THE NEXT
SLIDE SHOW THE PROPOSED
CONSTRUCTION IN THE NEW
BASEMENT FLOOR PLAN WHICH I
SAID THIS IS GOING TO BE A UNIT
NUMBER FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOMS
AND THREE BATHROOMS.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE FIRST
FLOOR WHICH CONTAINS APARTMENT
NUMBER ONE WITH TWO BEDROOMS
AND ONE BATH AND THAT AND THAT
APARTMENT EXTENDS UP TO THE
SECOND FLOOR AND THEN ALSO THE
FIRST FLOOR CONTAINS APARTMENT
NUMBER TWO WITH FOUR BEDROOMS
AND TWO BATHS.
>> THE SECOND FLOOR IS A
CONTINUATION OF APARTMENT ONE
WITH THE FOUR BEDROOMS AND TWO
BATHS AND APARTMENT NUMBER
THREE WITH FIVE BEDROOMS AND
TWO BATHROOMS.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS I TOOK AT
THE INSPECTION.
>> YOU SEE THE FRONT FACADE
OF THE BUILDING LOOKING DOWN
THE DRIVEWAY TOWARDS THE REAR
OF THE PROPERTY THIS SIDE
OF THE HOME AND THIS IS WHERE
THE ADDITION IS GOING TO BE IN
THE BACK OF IT.
THIS IS LOOKING DIRECTLY AT THE
REAR.
>> THE RESIDENCE AND EDITION
WILL BE RIGHT HERE OVER THIS
PART AND THEN THIS IS LOOKING
AT THE NORTH SIDE OF THE
BUILDING.
THAT'S ALL THE SLIDES AND
INFORMATION I HAVE AT THIS
TIME.
>> I CAN TAKE ANY QUESTIONS
THAT YOU MAY HAVE.
>> THANK YOU, JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS?
>> YEAH, NO I I'M A LITTLE BIT
CONFUSED BY THE STAFF REPORT
THAT SAYS THAT THEY'RE SEEKING
RELIEF FROM THE ZONING TO
CONSTRUCT THIS ADDITION ON THE
SECOND FLOOR.
BUT THEN LATER ON IT SAYS THAT
THEY'RE SEEKING RELIEF FOR THE
BASEMENT.
>> SO YEAH, THAT'S WHAT I WAS
TRYING TO CLARIFY IN MY
PRESENTATION THAT THE
ALTERATIONS JUST THE HABITABLE
SPACE IN THE BASEMENT BUT THE
248 SQUARE FOOT ADDITION
DOESN'T REQUIRE ALTERATION.
>> IT'S JUST PART OF THE
PROJECT IT BECAUSE ADDITION
MEETS THE SETBACKS FOR IT.
>> SO SO WHAT IS IT WE'RE
CONSIDERED WHEREAS THE BASEMENT
TO ALLOW NEW HABITABLE SPACE IN
THE BASEMENT AND WHAT IS THAT
CONFLICT WITH BECAUSE THE
PROPERTIES NONCONFORMING AND SO
IN ORDER SO IN ORDER TO GO TO
NEW HAD A LITTLE SPACE WITH THE
NONPERFORMING OUR FORESE
PROPERTY REQUIRES ZEEB APPROVAL
FOR LIKE WHEN THEY WANT TO DO
BASEMENT SPACE OR OH SPACE THE
ATTIC OK TO CREATE ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS FOR JOHN.
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONER IS HERE IF
YOU WOULD LIKE TO COME FORWARD
SIGN IN STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES
EVENING.
MY NAME IS DAVID LEWIS.
I AM THE ARCHITECT OF THE
PROJECT.
I'M WITH LEWIS GREENSPAN
ARCHITECT SET FOR FORTY S MAIN
STREET IN ANN ARBOR.
SO A COUPLE OF POINTS I JUST
WANTED TO EMPHASIZE WE ARE JUST
SEEKING PERMISSION TO ALTER AND
I'M PROPERTY THE ALL THE NEW
WORK CONFORMS WITH ALL THE
ZONING CODES THE AND THE
PROPERTY IS ACTUALLY THE MY
OPINION I GUESS THE MAIN
NONCONFORMING ISSUE IS THE
PROPERTY IS NOT EIGHTY
FIVE
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET WHICH ARE
FORESE REQUIRES BUT IT'S LIKE
EIGHTY TWO HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
LIKE LIKE THREE HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET AWAY FROM BEING ILLEGAL
LEGAL OUTDOORSY LOT AND AND
THAT WOULD ALLOW FOR UNITS
RIGHT NOW THE BUILDING SIX SO
THIS WORK IS ACTUALLY KIND
OF BRINGING THE BUILDING MORE
IN LINE WITH THE ZONING
CODE AND ALSO THE THIS WORK
WILL INCLUDE IMPROVING THE
WHOLE BUILDING SO YOU NEW
KITCHEN APPLIANCES AND ENERGY
STAR APPLIANCES, NEW WINDOWS
UPGRADED THERMAL PERFORMANCE
UPGRADED OUR NEW HEATING
SYSTEM.
SO IT'S GOING TO REALLY BENEFIT
THE WHOLE ENTIRE BUILDING
SIGNIFICANTLY JOHN.
JUST TO CLARIFY, WOULDN'T THE
SECOND FLOOR EDITION STILL
REQUIRE PERMISSION TO ALTER
BECAUSE IT'S ADDING SPACE TO A
NON PERFORMING PROPERTY?
>> THAT'S WHY I MAKE SURE WE
GET IF IF WE NEED PERMISSION
FOR BOTH THINGS I WANNA MAKE
SURE THAT GETS ON THE RECORD.
I THINK I MIGHT LIKE I BELIEVE
IF WE ARE ONLY DOING THE SECOND
FLOOR EDITION WE'D STILL NEED
TO GET ZIBA PERMISSION TO ALTER
NONCONFORMING PROPERTY BUT I I
READ IT AGAIN THAT SETBACK
REQUIREMENTS AND THE HEIGHT
REQUIREMENTS AND EVERYTHING
WITH CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE CORRECT
.
THAT'S THE
BUT IT DOES ADD
HABITABLE SPACE.
YEAH.
SO YEAH I WILL AGREE WITH YOU
AND DAVE THAT IN ASSESSMENT
THAT THAT I'LL CHANGE MY STATUS
THAT IT DOES REQUIRE APPROVAL
AS WELL.
BOTH BOTH BOTH CONSTRUCTION
ENCOMPASS REQUIRES THE
ALTERATION APPROVAL OF THE EVEN
IN THAT I SHOULD SAY EVEN
THOUGH THE NEW ADDITIONS MEET
ALL THE REQUIREMENTS IT'S
CREATING NEW HABBAL SPACE BUT
IT DOES MEET THE SETBACKS AND
CORRECT EVERYTHING ZONING
CODE COMPLIANT.
HE'S TRYING TO SAY THE MOST
MOTION SHEET I HAVE IN FRONT
OF ME REFERS TO THE
CONSTRUCTION OF A SECOND STORY
ADDITION.
YES, PART OF THE MOTION TO LOOK
FOR THE OTHER CLOSET.
YES.
SO WE'RE COVERED IN TERMS
OF THE MOTION IF I MAKE THE
MOTION IT'S GOING TO BE
COVERED OR COVERED OR ANY
QUESTIONS FOR ME.
>> ANY QUESTIONS I'VE GOT TO
SEE HOW MANY PARKING SPACES DO
YOU HAVE IN THE LOFT CURRENTLY?
>> CURRENTLY THE NUMBER
OF PARKING SPACES AT THE BACK
OF THE DRIVEWAY IN THE BACK
PARKING LOT AND THAT'S NOT
CHANGING.
>> YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE SPACES
THAT WE'RE NOT WE'RE NOT ADDING
OR SUBTRACTING ANY PARKING.
>> OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I NEED A QUESTION.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, NOW'S YOUR
CHANCE.
THE PUBLIC HEARING IS OPEN IF
YOU ARE ACCESSING THE MEETING
REMOTELY.
OH, IF YOU ARE ACCESSING
REMOTELY YOU CAN COME UP AND
YOU CAN GO FIRST
.
MUSTAPHA ALI OF CAREWORN UNTIL
THE HOUSES STOOD IN FRONT
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE
REMODEL WILL BRING THE HOUSE UP
TO CODE AND PROVIDE ADDITIONAL
FIRE SAFETY, FIRE SEPARATION
BETWEEN THE UNITS FOR A NEW
ALARM SYSTEM, A NEW HEATING AND
COOLING SYSTEMS IN EACH UNIT
THERE'S CURRENTLY NO COOLING A
NEW ELECTRICAL SYSTEM, A NEW
PLUMBING UP TO CODE AND INSIDE
EVERY UNIT WILL HAVE ITS ITS
OWN LAUNDRY.
NOW THERE IS NO LAUNDRY AT THE
AND ALL SIX UNITS DOES NOT HAVE
LAUNDRY AND WE'RE USING TOP
QUALITY CLASSIC CHARITY KITCHEN
CABINETS WITH GRANITE
COUNTERTOPS, ALL GRANITE
COUNTERTOPS, A TOP QUALITY
BUILDING MATERIAL AND THE NEW
ENERGY EFFICIENT APPLIANCES.
WE ARE STAYING WITHIN THE
ORIGINAL FOOTPRINT OF THE
BUILDING AND PROBABLY JOHN AND
I AGREE WITH THAT AND NOT
PARKING SPACES WILL BE LOST.
THEY ACTUALLY WILL IMPROVE THE
PARKING AND THE REMODEL WILL
BRING THE HOUSE UP TO FULL
POTENTIAL AND INCREASE DENSITY
WITHOUT LOSING ANY SQUARE
FOOTAGE OF THE LOT.
>> THANK THANK YOU.
THERE'S ANYONE ELSE WHO WISHES
TO SPEAK ON THIS PETITION.
PLEASE COME FORWARD IF YOU'RE
ACCESSING REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE ARE USED THE RAISE
AND BUTTON IF YOU'RE ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK THERE ARE
NO CALLERS AT THIS TIME.
>> THANK YOU JOHN.
I'M READY TO MAKE A MOTION WITH
THE PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
AND WE'RE IN DISCUSSION OR
PERHAPS READY FOR MOTION.
>> I'LL MAKE THE MOTION AND
THEN WE CAN DISCUSS IT FOR
PEOPLE ON.
>> THANKS DAVE ZIBA TWENTY FOUR
DASHI OR ZERO THREE NINE FOUR
TWENTY SIX S FOURTH AVENUE
ALTERIO SHINTA A NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF
FROM SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY
TWO POINT TO ALTERATION TO A
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE TO
ALLOW CONSTRUCTION OF A TWO
HUNDRED FIFTY EIGHT SQUARE FOOT
SECOND STORY ADDITION TO THE
NONCONFORMIST STRUCTURE AS WELL
AS NEW HABITABLE SPACE IN THE
BASEMENT, THE PROPOSED INTERIOR
REMODEL CONSTRUCTION WILL
RECONFIGURE THE EXISTING
APARTMENTS FROM SIX UNITS TEN
BEDROOMS TO FOUR UNITS.
TWENTY BEDROOMS WORK WILL ALSO
INCLUDE CREATING NEW HABITABLE
SPACE IN THE BASEMENT TO
INCLUDE A FIVE BEDROOM THREE
BATHROOM UNIT.
THE ADDITION AND INTERIOR
REMODELING ARE TO BE BUILT PER
THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO SUPPORT.
THANK YOU TODD.
SO ANY DISCUSSION I KNOW I'LL
SAY THIS IS ADDING NEW HOUSING
IN AN AREA THAT IS QUITE DENSE
ALREADY AND WE'RE NOT LOSING
ANY PARKING.
IT'S THE KIND OF HOUSING TO
THAT MEETS THE NEEDS OF A LOT
OF STUDENTS AND NONSTUDENTS IN
THIS AREA AND I SUPPORTED.
ALL RIGHT, TODD.
>> YES, DERMO YES.
JULIE YES.
DAVE DEVOURER.
>> YES, PATTY YES.
>> DREW YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES.
>> THE REQUEST IS GRANTED
MOVING ON TO PETITION KVA
TWENTY FOUR DASHI ZERO ZERO
FOUR ZERO ONE NINE TWO ONE
CAMBRIDGE ROAD JOHN SCOTT
CRANDALL REPRESENTING THE
PROPERTY OWNER IS REQUESTING A
VARIANCE OF FOUR FEET FOUR
INCHES FROM SECTION FIVE POINT
EIGHTEEN POINT FIVE
ESTABLISHING A FRONT BUILDING
LINE.
THE VARIANCE WILL ALLOW
CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW TWO CAR
GARAGE TO ENCROACH INTO THE 40
FOOT AVERAGE FRONT SET BACK.
THE PROPERTY IS ZONED R ONE C
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE WEST SIDE OF CAMBRIDGE
ROAD BETWEEN HILL STREET AND
DAY STREET AND THE ANGEL
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE EXISTING RESIDENCE WAS
CONSTRUCTED IN 1912 AND IS
APPROXIMATELY TWO THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED SEVENTY TWO SQUARE FEET
IN SIZE.
THE APPLICANT IS PROPOSING THE
DEMOLITION OF AN EXISTING
SINGLE CAR GARAGE WITH A NEW
TWO CAR ARRIVES.
IT APPROACHES FOUR FEET FOUR
INCHES INTO THE 40 FOOT AVERAGE
FRONT SET BACK.
THE GARAGE IS APPROXIMATELY
TWENTY NINE FEET BY TWENTY FIVE
FEET FOR A TOTAL OF SEVEN
HUNDRED FIFTY TWO SQUARE FEET.
THE APPLICANT IS PROPOSING TO
HAVE AN OUTDOOR PATIO AND
LIVING SPACE OUTDOOR LIVING
SPACE ON THE ROOF OF THE
PROPOSED GARAGE.
>> IF YOU TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITOR'S THE FIRST
SLIDE IS THE ZONING MAP.
>> YOU SEE THE PUBLIC PROPERTY
HIGHLIGHTED IN GREEN ON YOUR
MAP.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZONING
ARE THE LOCATION MAP SHOWING
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE PROPOSED SITE PLAN AND
AN EXISTING CONTEXT SITE PLAN
KIND OF AN AERIAL PHOTO AND
THEN YOU SEE THE PROPOSED NEW
TWO CAR GARAGE AND THIS IS THIS
THIS SLICE OF THE CORNER OF THE
NORTHEAST CORNER OF THE GARAGE
IS GOING TO BE THE FOUR FOOT
FOUR INCH ENCROACHMENT.
THE STEPS YOU CAN SEE STAIRS
AND EGRESS ARE ALLOWED TO
ENCROACH ON THE UP BACK.
SO THOSE ARE NOT PART OF THE
VARIOUS REQUESTS.
>> THEY DO NOT REQUIRE VARIANCE
.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE LOWER
LEVEL DEMOLITION PLAN AND YOU
SEE THE EXISTING AVERAGE SET
BACK LINE AND THE EXISTING
GARAGE AND HOW IT COMPLIES.
NOW THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE MORE
THE GARAGE OF FOUNDATION
SHOWING ITS CURRENT STATE AND
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE LOWER
LEVEL FLOOR PLAN OF THE GARAGE
AND YOU SEE THE ENCROACHMENT
THAT'S CALLED OUT RIGHT HERE
INTO THAT FRONT SET BACK AND
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE MAIN
FLOOR PLAN OR SECOND STORY
ABOUT THE ROOF OF THE
GARAGE
AND THEY'RE CALLING IT A PATIO
AND SOME OUTDOOR FURNITURE.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE PHOTOS THAT
WERE SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION BY THE PETITIONER
AND THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS A
CONCEPTUAL DESIGN OF THE OF THE
PROJECT AND KIND OF LOOKING
FROM THE SOUTHEAST AND THE
NORTHEAST PERSPECTIVES NEXT
SLIDE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
TOOK AT THE INSPECTION OF THE
PROPERTY.
YOU SEE THE FROM THE STREET
FROM CAMBRIDGE LOOKING UP
TOWARDS THE PROPERTY AND THE
EXISTING GARAGE WHERE MY CURSOR
IS AND THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
EXISTING GARAGE IN ITS CURRENT
LOCATION AND HOW IT'S IN ITS
CURRENT STATE.
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE EXISTING
STEPS GOING UP TO THE TOP
OF THE GARAGE INTO THE FRONT
PORCH AND THE SECOND STOREY THE
GARAGE.
>> THIS IS LOOKING OUT FROM THE
FRONT PORCH TO THE NEIGHBORS
ACROSS THE STREET KIND OF GIVES
A PERSPECTIVE OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE AND THE
HOME AND HOW IT SITS IN ITS
CURRENT STATE.
>> THIS IS LOOKING YOU SEE THIS
SUBJECT PROPERTY I'M LOOKING
NORTH ALONG CAMBRIDGE AND THE
NEIGHBORS AND THE NEXT SLIDE
SHOWS LOOKING SOUTH TOWARDS THE
PROPERTIES OF THE NEIGHBORS AND
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY TO THE
RIGHT OF YOUR SCREEN.
>> THAT IS THE END OF MY
PRESENTATION THAT I WILL TAKE
ANY QUESTIONS YOU MAY HAVE AT
THIS TIME.
>> THANK YOU, JOHN.
QUESTIONS
ALL RIGHT.
>> IF THE PETITIONER IS HERE,
IF YOU COULD PLEASE COME
FORWARD, SIGN IN FOR THE
RECORD, STATE YOUR NAME.
>> YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
THANK YOU FOR THE RECORD, MY
NAME IS TIMOTHY REZKO, THE
ARCHITECT WITH MEADOWLARK SCOTT
CRANDALL IS MY COLLEAGUE.
I DON'T KNOW IF THE NAME NEEDS
TO BE CHANGED FOR THE RECORD OR
NOT BUT THIS HOUSE WAS DESIGNED
BY ALBERT KAHN.
THE HOMEOWNERS ARE COMMITTED TO
RESTORING THIS HOUSE,
PRESERVING IT FOR ITS
HISTORICAL CHARACTER.
THE CURRENT GARAGE AND PATIO
ARE FAILING STRUCTURALLY ALONG
WITH THE RETAINING WALL.
SO THEY'RE COMMITTED TO
REPLACING IT REGARDLESS
OF WHETHER WE BUILD THEM A TWO
CAR GARAGE OR A ONE CAR GARAGE
.
IN 1912 WHEN THE HOUSE WAS
BUILT, MODEL TS WERE ON THE
ROAD FOR FOUR YEARS AND IF IT
WAS BUILT FOR A CAR IT WAS
PROBABLY SOMETHING VERY SMALL.
SO NOT ONLY IS IT IT'S A ONE
CAR GARAGE IN WIDTH BUT IT'S
ALSO VERY SHALLOW.
SO EVEN NOW UNABLE TO PARK A
CAR IN IT SO WE COULD HAVE
MOVED THIS OVER TOWARDS THE
DRIVEWAY MORE TO GET OUT
OF THAT SETBACK LINE.
BUT BECAUSE THAT DOESN'T ISN'T
SYMMETRICAL AND DOESN'T ALIGN
WITH THE HOUSE THE WAY THE
ORIGINAL DESIGN WAS MEANT FOR
IT TO BE, WE WOULD HAVE WE
WOULD HAVE SUGGESTED DOING THAT
AND THAT'S BASICALLY IT JUST
WANTED TO LET YOU KNOW THAT WE
THINK THAT WE DON'T THINK THIS
IS GOING TO CHANGE THE
APPEARANCE FROM THE STREET MUCH
AT ALL BECAUSE IT'S PARTIALLY
SHIELDED BY LANDSCAPING AND
RETAINING WALLS THAT THE GARAGE
IS KIND OF A RETAINING WALL FOR
THE LANDSCAPING.
SO WE THINK IT WILL APPEAR TO
BE THE SAME.
>> THAT'S IT.
THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
>> ALL RIGHT.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, NOW'S YOUR
CHANCE.
IF YOU'RE HERE WITH US IN
PERSON, PLEASE COME FORWARD.
IF YOU'RE ACCESSING A MONTHLY
PLEASE PRESS STAR AND I KNOW
USE THE HAND BUTTON.
THERE ARE NO CALLERS AT THIS
TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
I WILL NOTE WE DID RECEIVE FIVE
LETTERS OF SUPPORT FROM
NEIGHBORS AT THREE ZERO ZERO
ONE GATTI'S NINETEEN HUNDRED
CAMBRIDGE NINETEEN FIFTY
CAMBRIDGE NINETEEN FIVE
CAMBRIDGE AND NINETEEN TWENTY
FIVE CAMBRIDGE WITH THAT A
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED AND IN
DISCUSSION AT I'M GOING TO VOTE
IN FAVOR OF THIS.
IT IS ONLY ONE QUARTER OF THIS
INTRUDING AND TIMOTHY I DIDN'T
QUITE CATCH HIS LAST NAME.
I APOLOGIZE FOR THAT BUT HE
ALLUDED THAT YES, THEY COULD
SLIDE IT AND AVOID THIS.
BUT I THINK PERSONALLY IT'S
IMPORTANT TO KEEP THE DESIGN
SIMILAR TO THE WAY ALBERT KAHN
DESIGNED IT.
HE HAS SOME WEIGHT IN MY MIND.
I THINK THAT'S WORTH A SLIGHT
LITTLE EXCEPTION FOR REPORTERS
.
I'LL BE VOTING FOR THIS.
I DROVE BY THERE TODAY.
IT WAS CLEAR TO ME THAT GIVEN
THE SIZE OF MODERN DAY VEHICLES
IT'S SEEMED TO ME AND THE
SPEAKER CONFIRMED THIS IN HIS
PRESENTATION BUT IT SEEMED TO
ME IMPOSSIBLE FOR ME TO HAVE
PULLED MY HONDA ODYSSEY AROUND
THAT CORNER INTO THAT GARAGE AS
IT CURRENTLY EXISTS.
SO IT'S CLEAR TO ME BECAUSE
OF THE YOU KNOW WHAT WE HAVE ON
THE ROAD NOW THAT SOMETHING
NEEDS TO BE DONE AND THAT'S
TOTALLY SEPARATE FROM THE
FOUNDATION ISSUES AND THE NEED
TO RENOVATE OR REHAB THIS IT'S
NOTABLE THAT THIS IS OUT
OF CONTROL PROPERTY.
I THINK IT'S WORTH IT IS
PROVIDING SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE
TO THE COMMUNITY TO DO WHAT WE
CAN TO MAINTAIN THE INTEGRITY
OF AN ALBERT KAHN DESIGN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD IS THIS WILL NOT
IMPINGE ON NEIGHBORS.
THERE'S A SUBSTANTIAL SETBACKS
ALL AROUND THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND
ACTUALLY WHEN YOU TURN THE
CURVE THERE TOWARDS WASHTENAW
THERE ARE A COUPLE HOUSES
CLOSER TOWARDS WASHTENAW, A
COUPLE PROPERTIES THAT THE
SETBACK OF THE EXISTING
STRUCTURES ARE WELL WITHIN
FORTY FEET EXISTING BUT THAT IS
AROUND THE CORNER AROUND THE
CURVE.
SO IT'S NOT THOSE STRUCTURES
ARE REALLY VISIBLE FROM THIS
SITE.
BUT AS HAS STATED BY BOTH THE
PETITIONER AND BY TODD, THE
THIS WILL IT'S GOING TO HAVE
MINIMAL IMPACT.
>> THERE WILL BE OBVIOUSLY
SCREENING HERE MAINTAINING THE
INTEGRITY OF THE ORIGINAL
DESIGN I THINK IS IMPORTANT AND
IT'S SOMETHING THAT I WILL
COMFORTABLY SUPPORT.
>> JOHN, QUICK QUESTION.
SO THIS VARIANCE IS A RESULT
OF THE FRONT SET BACK AVERAGE.
>> WHAT WOULD IF AVERAGING
WASN'T AT PLAY WHAT WOULD THIS
SETBACK BE FOR THIS PROPERTY
DENHA
THAT WOULD BE 25 FEET.
>> YEAH.
TWENTY FIVE FEET.
OK, SO THIS WOULD MEET THE
REQUIRED SET BACK IF NOT FOR
THE AVERAGING.
CORRECT.
IT'S JUST THAT NEIGHBORHOOD HAS
EXTENSIVE YARDS AND SO MANY
OF THE HOMES ARE SIXTY 70 80
FEET BACK.
SURE BUT THE MAXIMUM COULD BE
APPLIED IS FORTY.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION WE READY
FOR A MOTION.
>> I GOT A MOTION IN FRONT
OF ME I'D BE HAPPY TO MAKE.
>> THANK YOU DAVE ZEBA TWENTY
FOUR DASH ZERO ZERO FOUR ZERO
NINETEEN TWENTY ONE CAMBRIDGE
AVENUE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A
VARIANCE OF FOUR FEET FOUR
INCHES FROM SECTION FIVE POINT
EIGHTEEN POINT FIVE
ESTABLISHING A FRONT BUILDING
LINE.
THE VARIANCE WILL ALLOW
CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW TWO CAR
GARAGE SEVEN FIFTY TWO SQUARE
FEET TO ENCROACH INTO THE 40
FOOT AVERAGE FRONT SET BACK.
THE BUILDING IS TO BE
CONSTRUCTED PER THE SUBMITTED
PLANS HAVE A MOTION TO HAVE
SUPPORT.
>> THANK YOU PETIT DARMA.
YES JULIE.
>> YES.
DAVE DIVERTER YES PATTY.
>> YES YES YES.
>> ALSO YES.
YES THE REQUEST IS GRANTED.
>> MOVING ON WE HAVE NO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS NEW
BUSINESS REPORTS FROM COUNCIL
DERMO I DO NOT HAVE ANYTHING
NEW TO REPORT.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO COMMUNICATIONS.
WE NOTED ALL OF THE
CORRESPONDENCE WE RECEIVED WITH
REGARD TO PETITION THE PETITION
AT NINETEEN TWENTY ONE
CAMBRIDGE.
SO WITH THAT WE ARE TO PUBLIC
COMMENT IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM
THE PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK
TO THE ZIBA I DON'T SEE ANYONE
HERE BUT IF THERE'S ANYONE
REMOTELY PRESS START OR USE THE
RIGHT HAND BUTTON THERE ARE NO
REMOTE CALLERS.
ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT WE HAVE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN.
THANK YOU DENHA SUPPORT FROM
JULIE ON PAPER SAY I OPPOSED.
WE'RE JOINED.
THANKS EVERYONE.